---
title: "ARM 2020"
bg: white
color: black
style: left
---

# ARM 2020


## 19th Workshop on Adaptive and Reflexive Middleware

### December 7-11, 2020, Delft, The Netherlands

#### Held in conjunction with <a href="http://2020.middleware-conference.org/">ACM/IFIP Middleware 2020</a>


The Adaptive and Reflective Middleware (ARM) workshop series started together with the ACM/IFIP/USENIX International Middleware Conference, with which it has been co-located every year since this first edition in 2000. This year, we intend to follow on the success of over two decades of this event, providing researchers with a leading-edge view on the state of the art in adaptive middleware and the engineering of adaptive and autonomous distributed systems, as well as fostering an exciting environment for cooperation among researchers to address the challenging problems that remain unsolved.

Originally, adaptive and reflective middleware was motivated mainly by resource-constrained devices and mobile computing. Nowadays, the evolution of adaptive middleware technologies is driven by new classes of large-scale distributed, pervasive and resilient applications for multi and hybrid cloud, Internet of Things, smart cities, intelligent transportation, smart grids, Blockchain networks, resilient supply chains, remote healthcare, among others. 

Applying reflective techniques to open-up the implementation of middleware and related software platforms for interoperability, one-to-many deployment, and adaptability have proved particularly successful and influential in the past. However, there are still open challenges mainly related to scalability, heterogeneity and decentralized management, as well as resilient and autonomous real-time operations.

Following the trend in recent editions, the ARM workshop will bring together experts involved in designing and reusing adaptive systems at different layers, including application architecture, OS, virtualization technology and network. We are also interested in work exploring abstractions and techniques for adaptation that are complementary to reflection.


This year we will celebrate the 20th anniversary of the ARM workshop, and as part of the program we will also have invited position papers from key contributors over the years providing a broad perspective on the past, present and future of adaptive systems. 

#### Call for papers <a href="cfp/cfp.txt"> TXT</a> and <a href="cfp/cfp.pdf"> PDF

<!---
<span class="fa-stack subtlecircle" style="font-size:100px; background:rgba(255,166,0,0.1)">
  <i class="fa fa-circle fa-stack-2x text-white"></i>
  <i class="fa fa-bicycle fa-stack-1x text-orange"></i>
</span>
-->
