---
title: "program"
bg: darkorange
color: white
style: left
fa-icon: calendar
---

<h3 id="papers">Program</h3>

<h2 id="papers">Tuesday, December 10th</h2>

13:30-13:35 - Opening session (Marco Netto, IBM Research)<br>
<br>

13:35-14:30 - <strong> Keynote: Valerie Issarny (INRIA Paris) </strong> <br>
<br>
<strong> Adaptive and Reflective Middleware: A Perspective in the Context of Participatory Smart Cities.</strong>

<p><small>In this talk, I will walk through the research we have been doing at Inria over the last 5 years on middleware solutions for participatory smart cities. That is, our focus has been on providing middleware solutions that leverage component systems that run on user-owned mobile devices to gather their contributions, while creating a feedback loop with their users. The target systems are known as "Mobile Phone Sensing" -MPS- or "Mobile crowdsensing". Their key functions are: (1) sensing, (2) analyzing, and  (3) informing, sharing and persuading. MPS is an essential tool toward both large-scale participation and computing at the edge, since mobile phones are -so far- the most widely spread computing resources of our digital era.  However, MPS comes with key challenges such as overcoming the heterogeneity of the contributing devices but also attracting the citizens’ participation, for which we have investigated supporting middleware functions. Building on that research experience, I will specifically reflect on the benefit that adaptation and reflection (would) bring to the realization of such functions.</small></p>

<p><small>BIO:<em>
Valérie Issarny holds a “Director of research” position at Inria, the French institute for research in Information and Communication Science and Technologies, where she led the ARLES research team until 2013, investigating distributed software systems leveraging wirelessly networked devices, with a special emphasis on service-oriented systems. Valérie in particular studies middleware solutions easing the development of distributed collaborative services, including mobile services deployed over smartphones and interacting with sensors and actuators.  From 2013 to 2018, Valérie was the scientific coordinator of the Inria@SiliconValley International Lab promoting and fostering collaboration between Inria and California universities. She also coordinated the Inria CityLab program dedicated to smart cities and promoting citizen engagement; the program was developed in collaboration with CITRIS at University of California Berkeley, targeting urban-scale experiment in Paris and California cities. Related projects included Ambiciti on urban pollution monitoring through participatory sensing and crowd sourcing, and SocialBus on a middleware solution enabling interactions across social media to support democratic assembly and collective actions. Valerie has published over 200 technical papers. She is regularly TPC members in leading international technical conferences in her research domains. She is associate editor of ACM TAAS, ACM TIOT, IEEE TSC and IEEE TSE. She is co-founder and scientific advisor of Ambiciti.

To know more, visit: http://valerie-issarny.me/.</em></small></p>

<br>
<br>

14:30-15:00 -  <strong> Adaptive Mediation for Data Exchange in IoT Systems </strong>
<p><small><em>Andrew Chio (University of California, Irvine), Georgios Bouloukakis (University of - California, Irvine), Cheng-Hsin Hsu (National Tsing Hua University), Sharad Mehrotra (UCI), Nalini Venkatasubramanian (UC Irvine)</em></small></p>
<br>

15:00-15:30 - <strong> Service Resilience Framework for Enhanced End-to-End Service Quality </strong>
<p><small><em>Dhanya R Mathews (Indian Institute of Science), Lakshmi Jagarlamudi (Indian Institute of Science) </em></small></p>
<br>

15:30-16:00 - Coffee Break <br>
<br>

16:00-16:30 - <strong> AFIrM: An Adaptive Functional Middleware </strong> <br>
<p><small><em>Andre Silva (State University of Rio Grande do Norte - UERN), Nelson Rosa (Universidade Federal de Pernambuco)</em></small></p>
<br>

16:30-17:30 - <strong> Panel: Data-driven Techniques for Adaptive and Reflective Middleware</strong><br>
Panelists: Francois Taiani (IRISA/INRIA), Shashank Shekhar (Siemens), Abhishek Dubey (Vanderbilt University), Vana Kalogeraki (Athens University of Economics and Business), Roy Campbell (University of Illinois), Nalini Venkatasubramanian (University of California, Irvine) <br>
Moderators: Mohan Kumar (Rochester Institute of Technology) and  Aniruddha Gokhale (Vanderbilt University)
