---
title: "program"
bg: '#061f80'
color: white
style: left
fa-icon: calendar
---

<h3 id="papers">Program</h3>

<!---
<h3>TBD</h3>

<strong> Adaptive and Reflective Middleware: A Perspective in the Context of Participatory Smart Cities.</strong>

<p><small>In this talk, I will walk through the research we have been doing at Inria over the last 5 years on middleware solutions for participatory smart cities. That is, our focus has been on providing middleware solutions that leverage component systems that run on user-owned mobile devices to gather their contributions, while creating a feedback loop with their users. The target systems are known as "Mobile Phone Sensing" -MPS- or "Mobile crowdsensing". Their key functions are: (1) sensing, (2) analyzing, and  (3) informing, sharing and persuading. MPS is an essential tool toward both large-scale participation and computing at the edge, since mobile phones are -so far- the most widely spread computing resources of our digital era.  However, MPS comes with key challenges such as overcoming the heterogeneity of the contributing devices but also attracting the citizens’ participation, for which we have investigated supporting middleware functions. Building on that research experience, I will specifically reflect on the benefit that adaptation and reflection (would) bring to the realization of such functions.</small></p>

<p><small>BIO:<em>
Valérie Issarny holds a “Director of research” position at Inria, the French institute for research in Information and Communication Science and Technologies, where she led the ARLES research team until 2013, investigating distributed software systems leveraging wirelessly networked devices, with a special emphasis on service-oriented systems. Valérie in particular studies middleware solutions easing the development of distributed collaborative services, including mobile services deployed over smartphones and interacting with sensors and actuators.  From 2013 to 2018, Valérie was the scientific coordinator of the Inria@SiliconValley International Lab promoting and fostering collaboration between Inria and California universities. She also coordinated the Inria CityLab program dedicated to smart cities and promoting citizen engagement; the program was developed in collaboration with CITRIS at University of California Berkeley, targeting urban-scale experiment in Paris and California cities. Related projects included Ambiciti on urban pollution monitoring through participatory sensing and crowd sourcing, and SocialBus on a middleware solution enabling interactions across social media to support democratic assembly and collective actions. Valerie has published over 200 technical papers. She is regularly TPC members in leading international technical conferences in her research domains. She is associate editor of ACM TAAS, ACM TIOT, IEEE TSC and IEEE TSE. She is co-founder and scientific advisor of Ambiciti.

To know more, visit: http://valerie-issarny.me/.</em></small></p>

-->

<h3 id="day1">Tuesday, December 8th</h3>
*(schedule in CET - Central Europe Time)*

<br>
16:00-16:15 - Opening session - Shangping Ren (San Diego State University), Renato Cerqueira (IBM Research)<br>

<strong>Session: Models & Applications </strong> <br>
*chair: Shangping Ren, San Diego State University*

16:15-16:45 - Featured Talk: Gul Agha, UIUC <br>
*Adaptative Software in a Pervasive Cyberspace*

<br>
16:45-17:45 - Panel I

* Carolyn Talcott, SRI
* Aniruddha Gokhale, Vanderbilt University
* Yu Jiang, Tsinghua University
<br>

17:45-18:00 - break

<strong>Session: New Technologies </strong> <br>
*chair: Renato Cerqueira, IBM Research*

18:00-18:30 - Featured Talk: Nikil Dutt, UC Irvine<br>
*Computational Self-awareness and Self-organization: A Paradigm for Building Adaptive, Resilient Computing Platforms*

<br>
18:30-19:30 -  Panel II

* Abhishek Dubey, Vanderbilt University
* Christoph Hagleitner, IBM Research
* Luís Veiga, INESC-ID
<br>

19:30-19:50 - break

<strong>Session: ARM Retrospective and Future Directions</strong> <br>
*chair: Nalini Venkatasubramanian, UC Irvine*

19:50-20:20 - Featured Talk: Gordon Blair, Lancaster University<br>
*Twenty years of Adaptive and Reflective Middleware:  A Janus Perspective*

<br>
20:20-21:00 -  Panel III

* Roy H. Campbell, UIUC
* Fabio Kon, USP
* Fabio Costa, UFG
* Paulo Ferreira,  UiO / INESC-ID
<br>

21:00 - Final words from workshop chairs<br>

<br/>
<br/>
<strong>Featured Presentations' Abstracts</strong> <br>

*Adaptative Software in a Pervasive Cyberspace*<br>
Gul Agha<br>
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign<br>
Embedor Technologies, Inc.

Cyberphysical systems consist of software executing on networks of
heterogeneous nodes with different computing, sensing and actuation
capabilities interacting with the physical world.  As cyberphysical
systems acquire AI, software will define an intelligent pervasive
cyberspace.  Actors in this cyberspace will have ever evolving
services with varying security and privacy requirements.  They will
operate in a dynamically changing environment as both available
resources and the behavior of other agents changes. Actors in such a
complex environment cannot execute entirely preprogrammed sequences of
actions.  Middleware providing autonomous monitoring capabilities and
facilitating mechanisms to adapt becomes necessary.  Some
monitoring-and-control mechanisms will affect macro-level properties
of systems, much as central banks influence the emergent properties of
national economies by controlling parameters such as interest rates.
Other mechanisms will mediate interactions (enforcing contracts) that
affect the behavior of individual actors, and facilitate actors in
adapting to their changing environment.  The talk will lay out a
research agenda to help us realize a reliable and robust pervasive
cyberspace.

<br/>

*Computational Self-awareness and Self-organization: A Paradigm for Building Adaptive, Resilient Computing Platforms*<br>
Nikil Dutt<br>
UC Irvine

Self-awareness and self-organization have a long history in biology, psychology, medicine, engineering and (more recently) computing. In the past decade this has inspired new self-aware/self-organizing strategies for building resilient computing platforms that can adapt to the (often conflicting) challenges of resiliency, energy, heat, cost, performance, security, etc. in the face of highly dynamic operational behaviors and environmental conditions. I will begin by outlining a computational self-awareness paradigm that enables adaptivity and which supports system resilience. Computational self-awareness is achieved through introspection (i.e., modeling and observing its own internal and external behaviors) combined with both reflexive and reflective adaptations via cross-layer physical and virtual sensing and actuations applied across multiple layers of the hardware/software system stack.  Next I will outline strategies for combining computational self-awareness with self-organization for life-cycle management of dependable distributed computing platforms.   Our ongoing NSF/DFG Information Processing Factory (IPF) project applies principles inspired by factory management that combine self-awareness and self-organization for continuous operation and optimization of highly-integrated-but-distributed embedded computing platforms.  While each IPF computational component exhibits autonomy through self-awareness, collections of IPF entities can self-organize; the resulting emergent behavior must be controlled in order to ensure guaranteed service even under strict safety and availability requirements. I will outline strategies such as proactive reconfiguration to mitigate the risk of failures, self-optimization, self-identification using learning classifiers, and chip-level operation with flexible boundaries between critical and best effort regions, all guided by a self-aware planning component. The talk will conclude with the opportunities and challenges arising from adopting computational self-awareness and self-organization for making complex computational systems more resilient and self-adaptive.

<br/>

*Twenty years of Adaptive and Reflective Middleware:  A Janus Perspective*<br>
Gordon Blair<br>
Lancaster University

Janus is a Roman god with two faces, one looking backwards and one forwards, also used to reflect on transitions. In this talk, inspired by this mythological figure, I will both look back at 20 years of history focussing particularly on the initial workshop held in the year 2000 with its many hopes and aspirations, and also look forward to he future of adaptive and reflective middleware. In looking forward, I will draw on my current work, which is using my skills as a computer scientist to tackle grand challenges around a changing climate. Based on this experience, I will argue that principles that have been and continue to be developed in this community are of even more importance going forward given some of the grand societal challenges of our time.
